# CS-340
SNHU CS-340 portfolio submission

**How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?**
I write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable. I do so by following consistent formatting, clear naming conventions, and adding comments to explain functionality. Keeping code organized and well documented makes it easier to follow and update. I also focus on separating functionality into smaller, reusable components. The CRUD Python module is a good example of this approach since the CRUD module isolates database operations from the rest of the application. This makes the code more adaptable and allows the same module to be reused in other projects that require database interactions.

**How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?**
In my approach to this project I focused on breaking the problem down into smaller components, like database setup, data retrieval, and front-end display. Compared to previous assignments, this project required more integration between multiple different layers including MongoDB, Python, and Dash. I relied on the iterative approach for each individual layer adding functionality as I went on before connecting everything together for the final product. In the future, I would continue using this iterative approach and place more of my focus on planning database structure early in order to better accomodate the needs of the client.

**What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?**
Computer scientists design systems that help organizations use data more effectively. By building a dashboard for Grazioso Salvare, the application allows users to quickly filter and identify dogs that meet specific rescue criteria. This improves efficiency and decision-making by turning raw data into meaningful insights that are visually simple and easy to understand. This project shows how software can directly support real-world operational understanding and help organizations achieve their goals more efficiently.
